docs: add draft for user test context (#356)
seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout: docs/user-tests.qmd

---
title: "User testing"
---

::: callout-warning
🚧 This section is still in active development and is subject to changes
🚧
:::

<!-- TODO: Where should this file be located? Maybe the `team` repo because it provides context for internal user testing? -->

## Introduction

To our user tests, we aim to provide context for users to effectively
evaluate Sprout's features. For this purpose, we've crafted a basic case
that includes three simple test data files.

In the sections below, we will briefly [introduce

> Sprout](#a-short-introduction-to-sprout), describe the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sprout](#introduction), describe the
```

[context](#context) we would like the user to test Sprout based on, and
list the actions that we would like the [user to try to

> do](#what-we-would-like-you-to-do).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
do](#user-actions).
```

These sections are intented for a user to read before the user test.

> ## A short introduction to Sprout {#a-short-introduction-to-sprout}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## A short introduction to Sprout {#introduction}
```

You can write the header label to whatever you want, so might as well keep it shorter :grin

Sprout is a component of the Seedcase software ecosystem which is a
framework for an open and scalable infrastructure for health data. The
Seedcase ecosystem aims to enable researchers to build, manage, and

> share health data using modern best software practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
share health data using modern best practices in data engineering.
```

> take data created or collected for research studies and "grow" it in a
> structured way using modern best practices for storing data.

<!-- Should we scrap the rest of this section to allow the user to exploring this by themselves? This might facilitate the testing of how intuitve the flow and structure of Sprout is in a more "natural manner" where users might not have these definitions at hand/have read the documentation for this -->

In Sprout, there are two steps to structuring and storing your data:

1.  Create metadata

2.  Add data to the metadata

**Metadata** refers to data that provides information *about* other
data. It describes various attributes of data, such as the *name* of the
metadata and a *description* of what it contains, as well as describes
*which variables* are in the data, *what data types* they are, and a
*description* of what they are (which could include relevant information
such as the unit of the variable).

**Data** refers to the actual actual values or content that is being
described, analysed, or manipulated. It can be in various forms, such as
text, numbers, or even images or audio (however, currently, Sprout only

> supports tabular data).

Reviewer: I agree that this could be how we see how they interact with it. This text could definitely be moved over into the README or other user docs though! Like a "dictionary"/glossary of terms.

So in order to grow your data in a structured way, you begin by
describing your data through metadata, and then you can start to add, or
grow, your data in a structured way! Nice!

## Context {#context}

> You're a researcher collecting data on a diabetes patients and their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You're a researcher collecting data on a diabetes patient and their
```

Author: My thought was actually that it was different patients. So the change should be 
```suggestion
You're a researcher collecting data on diabetes patients and their
```

> exercise. You want to save and structure your data to ease the process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
physical activity. You want to save and structure your data to ease the process
```

Small thing, to keep it more general (exercise is specific, but often we researchers want to know about physical activity in general).

of 1) adding more data to your dataset, when more has been collected,
and 2) analysing the data later on.

You have collected the data across two time periods (in 2023 and 2024),

> resulting in two distinct cohorts. Each cohort represents the same group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resulting a longitudinal study of the same individuals,
```

A cohort is a group of same people sharing a similar characteristic, so the same people followed over time is a cohort. So it is only one cohort, not two.

> of individuals who tracked their exercise in March 2023 and 2024,
> respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
who tracked their exercise in March of 2023 and 2024.
```

You have two types of files with data: One describing the patients
`patients` which includes their age, sex, height, weight, and diabetes

> type, and one describing their exercise patterns `exercise` which
> includes when they exercised, what kind of exercise, and for how long.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type, and one describing their physical activity patterns `physical_activity` which
includes when they did activities, what kind, and for how long.
```

> You have two of each file type, one for each time period:
> `patients.csv`, `exercise_2023.csv`, and `exercise_2024.csv`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have two of each file type, one for each time period:
`patients.csv`, `physical_activity_2023.csv`, and `physical_activity_2024.csv`.
```

| id  | age | sex | height | weight | diabetes_type |
|-----|-----|-----|--------|--------|---------------|
| 01  | 54  | F   | 167.5  |  70.3  | Type 1        |
| 02  | 66  | M   | 175    |  80.5  | Type 2        |

: Showing the `patients.csv` and the first two rows within that file.

> | id  | exercise type | duration | date       |
> |-----|---------------|----------|------------|
> | 01  | run           | 10       | 01-03-2024 |
> | 02  | wall          | 25       | 175        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| id  | physical_activity | duration | date       |
|-----|---------------|----------|------------|
| 01  | run           | 10       | 01-03-2024 |
| 02  | walk          | 25       | 175        |
```

Is it supposed to be `175` for date?

Author: No. I'll change that! I like the physical_activity "wall" though

> : Showing the `exercise_2024.csv` and the first two rows within that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Showing the `physical_activity_2024.csv` and the first two rows within that
```

file.

Since you want to grow your data in a structured way, you decide to try
out Sprout for handling your data.

> ## What we would like you to do {#what-we-would-like-you-to-do}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What we would like you to do {#user-actions}
```

Now, that you have gotten a short introduction to the context and
Sprout, we would like you to try to do the three steps described below.

As you do it, we would like you to tell us your thought processes about
what you're doing and why it makes/doesn't make sense to do. We will try
to refrain from explaining and helping you too much along the way.

::: callout-note
An important aspect of user testing for you as the user is that **there
are no right or wrong answers.**

If something is unclear to you, it is a great oppurtunity for us to
learn how to make it clearer going forward - this is exactly why user
tests are so helpful for us!
:::

The three steps we would like you to try to do is:

1.  Create the metadata for the `patients.csv`

> 2.  Create the metadata for `exercise_2023.csv` and call it `exercise`
> 3.  Add the data from `exercise_2024.csv` to the `exercise` metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  Create the metadata for `physical_activity_2023.csv` and call it `physical_activity`
3.  Add the data from `physical_activity_2024.csv` to the `physical_activity` metadata
```
